so the apocalypse has happened the
zombies have come and gone and all plant
life on earth has died somehow all you
have are some basic supplies and some
seeds of a few types of essential plants
so what should you do to make absolutely
sure they grow seeing how rebuilding
human civilization absolutely depends on
it
well you'd probably think the last thing
you should do with these crucially
important seeds is something like poking
holes in them or grinding them with
sandpaper or throwing them in acid or
hot water but in fact all of these are
methods that are commonly used to help
seeds start growing
a typical seed consists of a plant
embryo encased in a hard seed coat to
start growing it needs to emerge or
sprout from inside this shell this
process is called germination but just
as it would be hard for you to get out
of a jail cell with no windows and no
doors the embryo might need a little
help escaping from its seed prison at
any process that makes us easier by
wearing down the seed coat is called
scarification this lets moisture and
nutrients get through the seed coat
making the embryo start growing until it
breaks through now you might be
wondering why it is that plants would
need humans to do all these weird things
to their seeds in order to grow and in
fact they don't in natural environments
seed coats are worn down by cold
temperatures bacteria or even animal
digestion our scarification methods just
mimic and accelerate these natural
processes to increase the chances of
successful germination one technique we
can use is called nicking to do this we
make a small cut or scratch into the
seed coat be careful not to cut too deep
you don't want to damage the plant
embryo inside another way is to file
down the seed coat using sandpaper or a
nail file once again you don't want to
file too much just enough to wear down
some of the seed coat after applying
either these methods you'll want to
spray the seeds with bleach to prevent
mold seeds can also be soaked in water
to soften the coat one way to do this is
to place the seeds in a nylon bag then
place the bag into hot water turn off
the heat immediately and allow the water
to cool to room temperature before
removing the seeds it's important not to
heat the seed for too long as this will
kill the embryo again you'll want to
spray them with bleach afterwards
finally you can try immersing the seeds
in a sulfuric acid solution make sure
you're wearing protective goggles and
gloves anytime you work with such a
dangerous substance place the seeds into
a wire mesh pouch and immerse the pouch
in the solution for 10 minutes then take
out the pouch and rinse it with clean
water take out the seeds and as before
spray them with bleach so they don't get
moldy
if you try all of these methods you will
see that some of them are more effective
than others and some work best for
different types of plants that have
harder or thicker coats so knowing what
seed scarification techniques work best
will be useful if you ever need to
survive a cataclysm start a farm or just
want to plant your own garden